# CS439_FinalProject
I built the game Snake using Tkinter. Tkinter is a graphics user interface or GUI made for python applications. It is lacking some of the aspects a normal game engine would usually have which led to a couple issues while building the game. The first issue was the major pitfall of python game development, forgetting to actually call the game function. The second was I had the boundaries for spawning the food wrong so they would end up spawning outside of the screen making it impossible to collect them. All it took was a couple adjustments to the spawning math and they started appearing again. Another issue I ran into was when I tried to add “Start” and “Restart” buttons to the game. I tried using a frame to contain the buttons but I was calling it too late in the init of the game function so they would not appear. I spent quite a bit of time trying to figure out why the buttons were not appearing. Then once I finally got the buttons to appear it messed up some of the code for the fruit spawning. I had some things out of order in the start_game function so it would restart the game and then clear the canvas so the fruit would disappear. Another issue I had with the button frame was the canvas was going behind it on the bottom so the snake could go off the bottom of the screen without dying. I fixed this by just lowering the height of the canvas when it was generated. Other than the issues the game works like any regular snake game, collecting fruit causes the snake to get larger and hitting the walls or yourself will lead to a game over. The game keeps track of your score at the top of the screen with start and restart buttons at the bottom of the screen. The game is all contained in one file and is started by simply just running the file. Tkinter is usually pre-installed with python distributions but may need to be installed if not already to run the project.
